README.md, before:

# Verilog_Basic
Basic Verilog modules for digital logic practice (AND, OR, NOT, XOR, NAND, NOR, Half Adder, etc.) with testbenches and simulation results.

## Goal
To practice implementing and verifying basic digital logic gates using Verilog HDL.

## Environment
- **Language** : Verilog (Vivado 2024.2)
- **Board** : BASYS3 FPGA BOARD FOR VIVADO

## File Structure
```
Verilog_Basic/
├── gates/
│   ├── and_gate.v
│   ├── and_gate_tb.v
│   ├── mux_2x1.v
│   ├── mux_2x1_tb.v
│   ├── mux_4x1.v
│   ├── mux_4x1_tb.v
│   ├── nand_gate.v
│   ├── nand_gate_tb.v
│   ├── nor_gate.v
│   ├── nor_gate_tb.v
│   ├── not_gate.v
│   ├── not_gate_tb.v
│   ├── or_gate.v
│   ├── or_gate_tb.v
│   ├── xnor_gate.v
│   ├── xnor_gate_tb.v
│   ├── xor_gate.v
│   ├── xor_gate_tb.v
│   ├── delay/
│   │ ├── and_gate_delay.v
│   │ ├── and_gate_delay_tb.v
│   │ ├── nand_gate_delay.v
│   │ ├── nand_gate_delay_tb.v
│   │ ├── nor_gate_delay.v
│   │ ├── nor_gate_delay_tb.v
│   │ ├── not_gate_delay.v
│   │ ├── not_gate_delay_tb.v
│   │ ├── or_gate_delay.v
│   │ ├── or_gate_delay_tb.v
│   │ ├── xnor_gate_delay.v
│   │ ├── xnor_gate_delay_tb.v
│   │ ├── xor_gate_delay.v
│   │ └── xor_gate_delay_tb.v
│   └── sim/
│       ├── waveform_and.png
│       ├── waveform_and_delay.png
│       ├── waveform_mux_2x1.png
│       ├── waveform_mux_4x1.png
│       ├── waveform_nand.png
│       ├── waveform_nand_delay.png
│       ├── waveform_nor.png
│       ├── waveform_nor_delay.png
│       ├── waveform_not.png
│       ├── waveform_not_delay.png
│       ├── waveform_or.png
│       ├── waveform_or_delay.png
│       ├── waveform_xnor.png
│       ├── waveform_xnor_delay.png
│       ├── waveform_xor.png
│       └── waveform_xor_delay.png
├── README.md
├── .gitignore
└── LICENSE
```

## Included Modules 

This repository contains the following modules in the 'gates/' folder:

- `and_gate.v` : 1-bit AND gate  
  `and_gate_tb.v` : Testbench for AND gate  
  `sim/waveform_and.png` : Simulation waveform

- `or_gate.v` : 1-bit OR gate  
  `or_gate_tb.v` : Testbench for OR gate  
  `sim/waveform_or.png` : Simulation waveform

- `not_gate.v` : 1-bit NOT gate  
  `not_gate_tb.v` : Testbench for NOT gate  
  `sim/waveform_not.png` : Simulation waveform

- `nand_gate.v` : 1-bit NAND gate  
  `nand_gate_tb.v` : Testbench for NAND gate  
  `sim/waveform_nand.png` : Simulation waveform

- `nor_gate.v` : 1-bit NOR gate  
  `nor_gate_tb.v` : Testbench for NOR gate  
  `sim/waveform_nor.png` : Simulation waveform

- `xor_gate.v` : 1-bit XOR gate  
  `xor_gate_tb.v` : Testbench for XOR gate  
  `sim/waveform_xor.png` : Simulation waveform

- `xnor_gate.v` : 1-bit XNOR gate  
  `xnor_gate_tb.v` : Testbench for XNOR gate  
  `sim/waveform_xnor.png` : Simulation waveform

- `mux_2x1.v` : 2-to-1 multiplexer (MUX)  
  `mux_2x1_tb.v` : Testbench for 2-to-1 multiplexer  
  `sim/waveform_mux_2x1.png` : Simulation waveform

- `mux_4x1.v` : 4-to-1 multiplexer (MUX)  
  `mux_4x1_tb.v` : Testbench for 4-to-1 multiplexer  
  `sim/waveform_mux_4x1.png` : Simulation waveform

### Delay-Based Gates

- `delay/and_gate_delay.v` : 1-bit AND gate with 5ns delay  
  `delay/and_gate_delay_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-bit AND gate with delay  
  `sim/waveform_and_delay.png` : Simulation waveform showing 5ns delay

- `delay/or_gate_delay.v` : 1-bit OR gate with 5ns delay  
  `delay/or_gate_delay_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-bit OR gate with delay  
  `sim/waveform_or_delay.png` : Simulation waveform showing 5ns delay

- `delay/not_gate_delay.v` : 1-bit NOT gate with 5ns delay  
  `delay/not_gate_delay_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-bit NOT gate with delay  
  `sim/waveform_not_delay.png` : Simulation waveform showing 5ns delay

- `delay/nand_gate_delay.v` : 1-bit NAND gate with 5ns delay  
  `delay/nand_gate_delay_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-bit NAND gate with delay  
  `sim/waveform_nand_delay.png` : Simulation waveform showing 5ns delay

- `delay/nor_gate_delay.v` : 1-bit NOR gate with 5ns delay  
  `delay/nor_gate_delay_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-bit NOR gate with delay  
  `sim/waveform_nor_delay.png` : Simulation waveform showing 5ns delay

- `delay/xor_gate_delay.v` : 1-bit XOR gate with 5ns delay  
  `delay/xor_gate_delay_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-bit XOR gate with delay  
  `sim/waveform_xor_delay.png` : Simulation waveform showing 5ns delay

- `delay/xnor_gate_delay.v` : 1-bit XNOR gate with 5ns delay  
  `delay/xnor_gate_delay_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-bit XNOR gate with delay  
  `sim/waveform_xnor_delay.png` : Simulation waveform showing 5ns delay

## License
This project is licensed under the **MIT License**. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Add 1x2 and 1x4 DEMUX modules, testbenches, waveforms and update README

README.md, after:

# Verilog_Basic
Basic Verilog modules for digital logic practice (AND, OR, NOT, XOR, NAND, NOR, Half Adder, etc.) with testbenches and simulation results.

## Goal
To practice implementing and **verifying** basic digital logic gates using Verilog HDL.

## Environment
- **Language** : Verilog (Vivado 2024.2)
- **Board** : BASYS3 FPGA BOARD FOR VIVADO

## File Structure
```
Verilog_Basic/
├── gates/
│   ├── and_gate.v
│   ├── and_gate_tb.v
│   ├── demux_1x2.v
│   ├── demux_1x2_tb.v
│   ├── demux_1x4.v
│   ├── demux_1x4_tb.v
│   ├── mux_2x1.v
│   ├── mux_2x1_tb.v
│   ├── mux_4x1.v
│   ├── mux_4x1_tb.v
│   ├── nand_gate.v
│   ├── nand_gate_tb.v
│   ├── nor_gate.v
│   ├── nor_gate_tb.v
│   ├── not_gate.v
│   ├── not_gate_tb.v
│   ├── or_gate.v
│   ├── or_gate_tb.v
│   ├── xnor_gate.v
│   ├── xnor_gate_tb.v
│   ├── xor_gate.v
│   ├── xor_gate_tb.v
│   ├── delay/
│   │ ├── and_gate_delay.v
│   │ ├── and_gate_delay_tb.v
│   │ ├── nand_gate_delay.v
│   │ ├── nand_gate_delay_tb.v
│   │ ├── nor_gate_delay.v
│   │ ├── nor_gate_delay_tb.v
│   │ ├── not_gate_delay.v
│   │ ├── not_gate_delay_tb.v
│   │ ├── or_gate_delay.v
│   │ ├── or_gate_delay_tb.v
│   │ ├── xnor_gate_delay.v
│   │ ├── xnor_gate_delay_tb.v
│   │ ├── xor_gate_delay.v
│   │ └── xor_gate_delay_tb.v
│   └── sim/
│       ├── waveform_and.png
│       ├── waveform_and_delay.png
│       ├── waveform_demux_1x2.png
│       ├── waveform_demux_1x4.png
│       ├── waveform_mux_2x1.png
│       ├── waveform_mux_4x1.png
│       ├── waveform_nand.png
│       ├── waveform_nand_delay.png
│       ├── waveform_nor.png
│       ├── waveform_nor_delay.png
│       ├── waveform_not.png
│       ├── waveform_not_delay.png
│       ├── waveform_or.png
│       ├── waveform_or_delay.png
│       ├── waveform_xnor.png
│       ├── waveform_xnor_delay.png
│       ├── waveform_xor.png
│       └── waveform_xor_delay.png
├── README.md
├── .gitignore
└── LICENSE
```

## Included Modules 

This repository contains the following modules in the 'gates/' folder:

- `and_gate.v` : 1-bit AND gate  
  `and_gate_tb.v` : Testbench for AND gate  
  `sim/waveform_and.png` : Simulation waveform

- `or_gate.v` : 1-bit OR gate  
  `or_gate_tb.v` : Testbench for OR gate  
  `sim/waveform_or.png` : Simulation waveform

- `not_gate.v` : 1-bit NOT gate  
  `not_gate_tb.v` : Testbench for NOT gate  
  `sim/waveform_not.png` : Simulation waveform

- `nand_gate.v` : 1-bit NAND gate  
  `nand_gate_tb.v` : Testbench for NAND gate  
  `sim/waveform_nand.png` : Simulation waveform

- `nor_gate.v` : 1-bit NOR gate  
  `nor_gate_tb.v` : Testbench for NOR gate  
  `sim/waveform_nor.png` : Simulation waveform

- `xor_gate.v` : 1-bit XOR gate  
  `xor_gate_tb.v` : Testbench for XOR gate  
  `sim/waveform_xor.png` : Simulation waveform

- `xnor_gate.v` : 1-bit XNOR gate  
  `xnor_gate_tb.v` : Testbench for XNOR gate  
  `sim/waveform_xnor.png` : Simulation waveform

- `mux_2x1.v` : 2-to-1 multiplexer (MUX)  
  `mux_2x1_tb.v` : Testbench for 2-to-1 multiplexer  
  `sim/waveform_mux_2x1.png` : Simulation waveform

- `mux_4x1.v` : 4-to-1 multiplexer (MUX)  
  `mux_4x1_tb.v` : Testbench for 4-to-1 multiplexer  
  `sim/waveform_mux_4x1.png` : Simulation waveform
  
- `demux_1x2.v` : 1-to-2 demultiplexer (DEMUX)  
  `demux_1x2_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-to-2 demultiplexer  
  `sim/waveform_demux_1x2.png` : Simulation waveform

- `demux_1x4.v` : 1-to-4 demultiplexer (DEMUX)  
  `demux_1x4_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-to-4 demultiplexer  
  `sim/waveform_demux_1x4.png` : Simulation waveform

### Delay-Based Gates

- `delay/and_gate_delay.v` : 1-bit AND gate with 5ns delay  
  `delay/and_gate_delay_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-bit AND gate with delay  
  `sim/waveform_and_delay.png` : Simulation waveform showing 5ns delay

- `delay/or_gate_delay.v` : 1-bit OR gate with 5ns delay  
  `delay/or_gate_delay_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-bit OR gate with delay  
  `sim/waveform_or_delay.png` : Simulation waveform showing 5ns delay

- `delay/not_gate_delay.v` : 1-bit NOT gate with 5ns delay  
  `delay/not_gate_delay_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-bit NOT gate with delay  
  `sim/waveform_not_delay.png` : Simulation waveform showing 5ns delay

- `delay/nand_gate_delay.v` : 1-bit NAND gate with 5ns delay  
  `delay/nand_gate_delay_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-bit NAND gate with delay  
  `sim/waveform_nand_delay.png` : Simulation waveform showing 5ns delay

- `delay/nor_gate_delay.v` : 1-bit NOR gate with 5ns delay  
  `delay/nor_gate_delay_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-bit NOR gate with delay  
  `sim/waveform_nor_delay.png` : Simulation waveform showing 5ns delay

- `delay/xor_gate_delay.v` : 1-bit XOR gate with 5ns delay  
  `delay/xor_gate_delay_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-bit XOR gate with delay  
  `sim/waveform_xor_delay.png` : Simulation waveform showing 5ns delay

- `delay/xnor_gate_delay.v` : 1-bit XNOR gate with 5ns delay  
  `delay/xnor_gate_delay_tb.v` : Testbench for 1-bit XNOR gate with delay  
  `sim/waveform_xnor_delay.png` : Simulation waveform showing 5ns delay

## License
This project is licensed under the **MIT License**. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
